# Software Issues

**Q: Why can't my compiler find the corresponding device?**
- A: You need to build a development environment and install the corresponding project library before you can develop the device.

## 1 About myblockly

**Q: When myblockly is running, child process exited with code 0 always appears. Why?**

- A: This is not an error. The real error needs to be analyzed according to the specific situation. This string of characters represents the end of the program running, and the binary number 0 is returned, which means termination.

## 2 About ROS2

**Q: When the terminal switches to ~/colcon_ws/src and uses git to install and update mycobot_ros2, the target path "mycobot_ros2" already exists. What is the reason?**
- A: This means that there is already a `mycobot_ros2` package in `~/colcon_ws/src`. You need to delete it in advance and then re-execute the git operation.

**Q: When ros2 run is running, the terminal reports an error `counld not open port /dev/ttyUSB0: Permission: '/dev/ttyUSB0'`. Why?**

- A: The serial port permissions are insufficient. Enter `sudo chmod 777 /dev/ttyUSB0` in the terminal to grant permissions.

**Q: Why can't the ros2 program run in vscode?**

- A: Because the vscode terminal cannot be loaded into the ros2 environment, it needs to be run in the system terminal.

**Q: When ros2 run is running, the terminal reports an error message `counld not open port /dev/ttyUSB0: No such file or directory: '/dev/ttyUSB1'`, why?**

- A: The serial port is incorrect. You need to confirm the actual serial port of the current robot. You can check it through `ls /dev/tty*`.

**Q: I just cloned the mycobot_ros2 package, and then ran the ros2 run program directly. The error `package 'mycobot_280_riscv' not found` or the file could not be found appeared?**

- A: The mycobot_ros2 that was just cloned needs to build the code for ros2 environment compilation. Terminal input

```bash
cd ~/colcon_ws/
colcon build
source install/setup.bash
```