# Software Issues

**Q: Why can't my compiler find the corresponding device? **
- A: You need to build a development environment and install the corresponding project library before you can develop the device.

## 1 About myStudio

**Q: What is myStudio?**
- A: It is our company's self-developed software. It is a tool for burning or modifying the firmware of the existing robotic arms launched by our company.

**Q: Why can't the device work properly after I burn the firmware to the ATOM terminal?**
- A: The firmware of the ATOM terminal needs to use our factory firmware. Other unofficial firmware cannot be changed during use. If the device accidentally burns other firmware, you can use "myCobot firmware burner" to select ATOM terminal-select serial port-select ATOMMAIN firmware to burn the ATOM terminal.

**Q: Can the drag teaching in the firmware record the gripper action?**
- A: It is not possible to use drag teaching to record the gripper movements for the time being, because the gripper belongs to joint number 7, and our drag teaching can only record and play the movements of joints numbered 1-6.

**Q: Why can't drag teaching be performed after burning the minirobot firmware?**
- A: First check whether both the M5Stack-basic firmware and the atom firmware have been burned, whether the burned firmware corresponds to the requirements to be implemented, and whether the burned firmware is the latest version.
- It is recommended to burn the minirobot firmware to version v2.1 and the top atommain firmware to version v4.1 and above (need to support mystudio version v4.3.1 and above).

**Q: What should I do if mycobot's serial port cannot be recognized on mystudio?**
- A: If your computer device does not prompt for the connected robot arm, please install the serial port driver first.
- It should also be noted that the Raspberry Pi, Arduino and Jetson nano series robot arms are **cannot be connected to a laptop using a data cable**, and need to use mystudio in the built-in system for firmware burning.

**Q: Can I save the recorded trajectory of drag teaching to the card?**

- A: Currently, it cannot be saved to the memory card. And drag teaching can only save one path at a time, and the next recording will overwrite the previous action.

## 2 About myblockly

**Q: When myblockly is running, child process exited with code 0 always appears. Why? **

- A: This is not an error. The real error needs to be analyzed according to the specific situation. This string of characters represents the end of the program running, and the binary number 0 is returned, which means termination.

## 6 About ROS2

**Q: When the terminal switches to ~/colcon_ws/src and uses git to install and update mycobot_ros2, the target path "mycobot_ros2" already exists. What is the reason?**
- A: This means that there is already a `mycobot_ros2` package in `~/colcon_ws/src`. You need to delete it in advance and then re-execute the git operation.

**Q: When rosrun is running, the terminal reports an error `counld not open port /dev/ttyS1: Permission: '/dev/ttyS1'`. Why?**

- A: The serial port permissions are insufficient. Enter `sudo chmod 777 /dev/ttyS1` in the terminal to grant permissions.


**Q: When rosrun is running, the terminal reports an error message `counld not open port /dev/ttyUSB0: No such file or directory: '/dev/ttyUSB1'`. Why?**

- A: The serial port is incorrect. You need to confirm the actual serial port of the current robot. You can check it through `ls /dev/tty*`.

**Q: After cloning the mycobot_ros package, and then directly running the rosrun program, an error like `package 'mycobot_280_rdkx5' not found` or an error such as the file cannot be found appears?**

- A: The mycobot_ros that has just been cloned needs to build the code for ros environment compilation. Terminal input

```bash
cd ~/colcon_ws/
colcon build
source install/setup.bash
```